# Authenticate 2023
Hosted by: Fast IDentity Online (FIDO) Alliance<br>
Date: October 16 - 19, 2023<br>
Venue: Omni La Costa Resort - Carlsbad, CA<br>
Details: 
- [Agenda](https://authenticatecon.com/event/authenticate-2023/){:target="_blank"}{:rel="noopener noreferrer"}

## Connect the Dots: FIDO Adoption on US Government Mobile Devices
Day 1, 3:30 - 5:30 pm<br>
Help us identify the enterprise use cases and challenges to FIDO adoption (including passkeys) on mobile devices. In a birds-of-a-feather discussion roundtable, we will pick a use case and discuss and identify potential risks and mitigations. Please help us identify the remaining technical blockers to meet NIST 800-63-3 Authentication Assurance Levels.

Speaker - Dr. Kenneth Myers; Director, Identity Assurance and Trusted Access Division @ U.S. General Services Administration Office of Government-wide Policy

## So, What Does the U.S. Government Think About FIDO Authentication?
Day 2, 2:!5 - 3:00 pm<br>
From a White House policy calling for the use of phishing-resistant authentication to new draft NIST guidance recognizing synced passkeys, the US government is embracing FIDO authentication to address a number of enterprise and consumer use cases. This panel will explore how policymakers, regulators, and agency implementers are all thinking about FIDO.

Moderator: 
- Jeremy Grant; Managing Director, Technology Business Strategy @ Venable LLP

Panelists:
- Courtney Rasey; Deputy Director of Identity Assurance @ U.S. Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service
- Christine Owen; Director @ Guidehouse
- Ryan Galluzzo; Digital Identity Program Lead @ U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology Applied Cybersecurity Division
- Dr. Kenneth Myers; Director, Identity Assurance and Trusted Access Division @ U.S. General Services Administration Office of Government-wide Policy
